So we can attack the monster,
what about healing? The heal button doesn't do anything
and therefore it would make sense that we also react to clicks on that, it's the heal button constant here,
so we want to add an event listener to that
and of course we want to trigger a function when this button is clicked.
So for that, we can register a new function, add it here maybe, the heal player handler or whatever you
want to name it and this heal player handler function should be triggered when the heal button is
pressed.
Now what happens in that heal player handler? In the end here,
I want to heal the player by a certain amount and that amount should also be set up up there so that
we can conveniently change it in one single place for the entire game.
I will name it heal value and maybe set that to let's say 20 which is a lot and you can definitely play
around with different values here if you want to. Now in vendor.js, we will also have the increase player
health function which is in the end the heal part.
This does not randomly calculate a value,
so instead the heal value we have will always be the real heal value applied.
So there is no randomness involved here,
this will just update the player health bar in the UI. So now with the heal value setup up there, we
can use it in the heal player handler and there, I in the end want to call increase player health which
is that function I just showed in vendor.js and forward the heal value so that we can heal the player
and thereafter of course, still the monster should be able to hit us.
So in the end, we will heal but we will also take an immediate hit by the monster, so the monster hits
us after every turn
no matter if we attacked it or if we healed ourselves.
So we want to let the monster attack us,
so that means that this code here also needs to run
and of course since the monster will hit us, we could, even though we healed ourselves, we could theoretically
be that, not really with a heal value of 20 and the max monster attack of 14,
so in this scenario we actually can't be that
but if the monster would hit us for a value of bigger than 20, so a maximum damage of bigger than 20 or
if we would heal for less, then we could be that
and since these values can be adjusted by you as a developer, I want to handle that case as well. So we
could be that,
hence I also want to have my win condition be executed here.
Certainly the player can't have one because the player dealt no damage to the monster but the monster
might have won if values were different.
So in the end, running this entire code again
doesn't sound too bad. Now obviously we can copy it over but you know what you learned about copying
code,
not the best idea,
so instead let's add a brand new function which we maybe name and round and in there,
I have my code where the monster hits us and where we check whether we won or the monster won or if
we have a draw or if nothing happened.
Now this and round function can now be executed whenever we had this code before,
so in the attack monster function after we dealt damage to the monster, we can call and round like this
and now this will and round, let the monster attack us and check the win condition and we do the
same here after healing, call and round. Again,
code we used efficiently,
very lean functions defined up there and a reusable and round function which we can call whenever a
round is over,
so even if we would add more options here. With that if we now hit the monster and we heal ourselves, we
see the health goes up a bit, here we go
and so on
but we can never heal to full because we always get damaged by the monster or at least it's very hard.
One problem we have with this heal logic
right now though is that we can actually also heal if we already have full health. So if I click heal here,
we actually take damage because the monsters still hits us but with enough luck, we can actually go above
our maximum health. By the way, you will also see that if you press heal a lot, you eventually lose which
is very strange,
now that's also something we'll have to fix.
Now the reason for us losing is that whilst our progress bar is updated by calling this function, our
health which we manage here, the currentPlayerHealth which is important for our win condition actually
isn't adjusted.
We adjust it when the monster hits us,
then we reduce our health, here
currentPlayerHealth reduced,
we also reduce the monster health when we hit it but we don't update,
we don't increase the currentPlayerHealth
if we heal ourselves. So that's one thing we have to do,
we have to set the currentPlayerHealth plus equal to heal value here,
otherwise the progress bar health does not reflect our internal game health
and in addition, I want to make sure that we can't heal for more than our maximum health, so that we can't
go above our maximum health. To guarantee that, we can actually add a new variable here in the heal player
handler, maybe named heal value like this which of course is different from our constant
here, it's written in a totally different way and Javascript is case sensitive
and of course there also we have an underscore which we don't have here, so it's a totally different
variable, even if it would be the same thanks to variable shadowing, we could have the same name here
in a function as we have globally by the way but this is a brand new variable, doesn't even have a
shared name anywhere
and I'm adding this variable because now again we can add an if check here and check if the current
player health is greater or equal than the chosenMaxLife, which is hardcoded to 100 here which later
can be set by the user,
so the chosenMaxLife minus the heal value.
Now what does this comparison do?
Now keep in mind that thanks to operator precedence, this is evaluated first,
so this basically at the beginning of the game for example calculates 100 - 20,
so 80 as a result and therefore we check if the currentPlayerHealth is greater than 80 here, which
at the beginning is the case because at the beginning, the currentPlayerHealth is equal to the chosen
nax life which is 100, 100 is greater than 80.
If that's the case, then we know that the heal value is either just enough to fully heal us back up
to our max health or to even heal us
beyond that. Put in other words, if we just applied heal value to improve our health,
we would at least go up to our initial health, maybe even go higher than that.
So in that case, what I want to do, I want to maybe throw an alert where I say you can't and
now I want to use a single quote here even though my entire string is surrounded by single quotes, to
fix that we can use double quotes to surround the string, then I can say you can't heal to more than your
max initial health or something like that and
thereafter I set the healing value equal to the chosenMaxLife minus the currentPlayerHealth
which basically means we heal the player back up to its initial health but not above that. Now
else, which is the case if our current health is not greater than this difference, so for example if our
current health is 60, this difference here for the current initial value always is 80,
then if we have a current health of 60, we don't make it into this block, then we go into the else block
because now we know if we apply the full heal value of 20, we will certainly still be below our maximum.
So we don't need to tell the user that we healed him for less,
instead we can apply the full heal values, so the full 20 health points in this case here to heal the
player,
so then I will set heal value equal to our global heal value constant here.
So here we apply the full 20 health points in this case,
here we might also apply the full 20 health points if the currentPlayerHealth is exactly 80 but for
example if it's 90,
this here will only be a value of 10 because we can't heal the player for more than up to its maximum
initial life.
So why did I do all of that?
Because now heal value is a dynamic value which takes the maximum amount of life and the current amount
of life of the player into account and therefore now we increase the player health
by this heal value and also our in-game player health by this value.
And now if I save that and I reload and I click heal right at the start, we get this alert and we are healed
back up
but since the monster immediately hits us, we actually don't see that,
so healing at the beginning of the game just is stupid as you can see
but if we then attack, for example here I get a warning, still a warning but here we see the effect a bit
because the monster didn't hit us as hard and so on. So this now works and if I'm a bit lower on health,
we don't get the warning of course, we only get this if we're high on health and we would potentially
heal ourselves up for more than our max health before the monster then hits us again.
So this is the healing functionality,
now we also don't lose because of some out of sync in game health and health bar health and therefore
now we successfully added a heal functionality with another
if check example, in this case used to ensure that we can't heal for more than up to our maximum initial
health.